README.md, before:

# General Knowledge Quiz

General Knowledge Quiz is a simple and beginner friendly game that aims to test general knowledge through multiple-choice questions. It is suitable for anyone, including adults and children.

We welcome you to your new favorite game website that will test your knowledge. Since this quiz is a beginer friendly, it will be a good start to challange yourself. We believe knowledge should be both fun and rewarding. The primary objective of the game is to assess the players general knowledge while also serving as a learning tool. You can access our platform through <a href="https://maryangelle.github.io/simplequiz/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">General Knowledge Quiz</a>

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets\readme-images\mockup-quizgame.jpg" style="background-color: white" alt="Quiz website mockup on mobile, desktop and Ipad">
</div>

<a id="contents"></a>

## Contents

- [**User Experience UX**](#user-experience-ux)
  - [**User Stories**](#user-stories)
  - [**Wireframes**](#wireframes)
  - [**Design Choises**](#design-choices)
  - [**Typography**](#typography)
  - [**Colour Scheme**](#colour-scheme)
- [**Features**](#features)
  - [**Home**](#navigation-menu)
  - [**Quiz**](#quiz)
  - [**Instruction**](#instruction)
  - [**Sound Effects**](#sound-effect)
  - [**Score**](#score)
  - [**Timer**](#timer)
  - [**High Score**](#highest-score)
  - [**Highlight**](#highlight-answer)
- [**Testing**](#testing)
- [**Technology Used**](#technology-used)
- [**Deployment**](#deployment)
- [**Credit**](#credit)
- [**Aknowledgment**](#aknowledgment)

# User Experience UX

The quiz game allows the players to personlize their experience by entering a username.

By entering their own username, players will have a personlized game experience. This feature enhances users experience and creates an interactive that is both fun but also personal. One the user/player enters their name it will be displayed throughout the game. This provides a sense of ownership and connection.

It also allows users the flexibility to express their individuality to their game experience.

- ## User Stories

Privacy

The player's username will only be visable to their players game session, this will not be stored or collected. It ensures privacy and secruity for all our users. The final page with scoring only includes the specific players score and does not display previous players name for security reasons.

Users Demands

- A user want to see instructions to the game on "how to play".
- A user want to know how long the game will take.
- A user want to know the level of difficulty this game required.
- A user want to know who the main target players are based on age.
- A user want to know how they scored.

[Back to top](#contents)

- ## Wireframes

- ## Design Choises

- ## Typography

- ## Colour Scheme

[Back to top](#contents)

# Features

Below you will find the features used in my quiz game project. The value the features in my project and why its useful function for the quiz game.

## Existing Features

- ## Home-page
  - Welcoming users to the page and request to choose a username for the game.
  - An icon for the quiz. To enhance user experience through visual appeal in order to add visual interest. It also serves the purpose to create a layout that is visually enganging. It creates a brand and recognition to lift up General Knowledge Quiz.
  - Username Entry is required upon the players to set a unique username in order to personlise the game experience.
  - A button "how to play" that instructs the user with information about the game and how to play. It allows a better user experience sinze the players gain an understanding for the game mechanics. The users also get familiar with the rules and expectations.
  - A start button "start Quiz" creates a benefit to the users as a seamless invitation to click the button for an easy smooth transition to the game. It creates intuitive user interaction by pressing the button it creates a call-to-action to start the game.

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets\readme-images\home-page.jpg" style="background-color: black" alt="Quiz Home page">
</div>

- Button colors for "start quiz" and "how to play" have been picked out as vibrant button colors as they play significant role in enhancing user experience and adding value to the quiz game. The colors create an emotional respone to the users as they have the ability to evoke emotions. Green color creates emotions of "fresh" and "new" and thus was picked to make the users excited to try out the game. "Blue" was used for "how to play" button since blue color is conveys a trusting sence. We want our users to feel that they can trust our game and trust to find the information they need to successfully play the quiz.

* ## Quiz-page

Answer Feedback colors has been created that is associated with the users choice of answer. It is interactive with the users input of choice. Distinct colors of "yellow" and "red" to provide feedback on the true or false answer. It provides clear visial differentiation for the users to identity their answers either as wrong or wright. The colors sends an immidiete feedback to the users and reinforces them to remember the correct and incorrect answers for future references.

![Answer](assets/images/right.answer.png)

![Answer](assets/images/wrong.answer.png)

- Next button's function only appears after the players have choicen and clicked an answer. It serves as a progression controll, it provides strucure and controlled game experience. It inceases users engagement as it also a form to make the users engaged and interactive in the game, pushing them to take action to procees the game's next question. It also serves to push the learning experience of the users as it allows the users to reflect their answer before moving to next question automatically.

  Below you will find images of the same question before and after appearance of the "next button".

![Next button](assets/images/without.png)

![Next button](assets/images/with.png)

- ## End Page

  The end of the quiz game features several functions and component that contribute to closure to the game and users final experience.

  - A thank you text to thank the users for their engagement. It serves the purpose to make the users feel valued for their time and aknowledged for participating.
  - A score text which allows users to see their final score for the game. It serves the purpose to motivate users to play again and if needed to score better next time.
  - A play again button is created to offer users the ability to play again and restart the game. It encourages replaybility for users to play again and an opportunity for continued learning.

  * ## Sound Effects

  - Sound effect for answer feedback has been integrated to create a sound effect for right and wrong answer. In order to enhance overall users experience. It serves as an audio feedback for the users to reflect their answers. Correct answer has a positive sound which create a sense of achievement and encouragement for our users. It serves as inclusive function for our users who perhaps need an audio feedback instead of a visual feedback. This promotes accessbility for all our users.

- ## Score

- ## Timer

- ## High Score

- ## Highlight

![score](assets/images/final.png)

- ## Instruction Page

[Back to top](#contents)

- ## Future Features
  Features for future quiz feature inorder to improve users overall experience that could be included to the quiz includes:

* Different levels to the quiz game, were the users can pick from beginner friendly, mid and difficult level. This would attract more users to the game.

[Back to top](#contents)

# Testing

Testing and validation was used to ensure quality and correct coding in order to create a functioning quiz for our users experience.

- Html Validator: The HTML code has been validated using the [W3 Markip Validation Service] (<https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input>)
- JavaScript Validator: The JavaScript code has been validated using the [Esprima] (https://esprima.org/demo/validate.html)
- CSS Validator: The CSS code has been validated using the [W3 CSS Validation Service] (<https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/>)

Please refer to [**_here_**](TESTING.md) for more information on testing the Quiz.

[Back to top](#contents)

# Techonologies Used

- Auto Close Tag:
  It is an extension ..

- Prettier:
  It ..

[Back to top](#contents)

# Deployment

### Local Deployment

- Choose an IDE that you work on which will be connected to your Github for further deployment.
- We chose the Github workspace: https://github.com/features/codespaces
- Ensure that your local development environment is properly set up with all necessary dependencies and configurations.
- Consider using a version control system like Git to manage changes locally before pushing them to Github.
- Open terminal on your workspace.
- Use 'git clone' command followed by the URL of the repository in order to deploy the project locally: such as, git clone 'https://github.com/MaryanGelle/simplequiz'

### Github Deployment

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets\readme-images\deployment.jpg" style="background-color: black" alt="Deployment Github page">
</div>

Requirements:

- A valid GitHub account.
- Familiarity with basic Git commands for version control.

1. Sign in to your GitHub account.
2. Go to https://github.com/MaryanGelle.
3. You can create a new repository.
4. On your Workspace use 'git add', 'git commit', and 'git push' to push changes to your GitHub repository.
5. GitHub Pages automatically updates from the master branch by default.
6. Open the Settings page of your repository.
7. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section.
8. Select the Master Branch as the source and confirm your selection.
9. Confirm your selection.
10. Wait a moment for the changes to propagate. Your website should be live shortly.

[Back to top](#contents)

# Credit

Below you will find credit references to my sources for content and media.

- Lato Font from [Google Fonts]
  (https://www.fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Lato:ital,wght@0,100;0,300;0,400;0,700;1,100;1,300;1,400;1,700&display=swap)
- Sound Effect:
  - Correct sound effect from [Pixabay] (<https://pixabay.com/sound-effects/search/correct/>)
  - Wrong sound effect from [Pixabay] (<https://pixabay.com/sound-effects/search/incorrect/>)
- Icon from [Flaticon] (<https://www.flaticon.com/search?word=knowledge>)
-
-
-
-
-

[Back to top](#contents)

# Acknowledgment

This Website quiz game was made by Maryan Gelle (Developer) as a Project 2 JavaScript for my Full Stack programe at Code Institue in 2025.

[Back to top](#contents)

Commit message:

changes to contrast of color and text

README.md, after:

# General Knowledge Quiz

General Knowledge Quiz is a simple and beginner friendly game that aims to test general knowledge through multiple-choice questions. It is suitable for anyone, including adults and children.

We welcome you to your new favorite game website that will test your knowledge. Since this quiz is a beginer friendly, it will be a good start to challange yourself. We believe knowledge should be both fun and rewarding. The primary objective of the game is to assess the players general knowledge while also serving as a learning tool. You can access our platform through <a href="https://maryangelle.github.io/simplequiz/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">General Knowledge Quiz</a>

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets\readme-images\mockup-quizgame.jpg" style="background-color: white" alt="Quiz website mockup on mobile, desktop and Ipad">
</div>

<a id="contents"></a>

## Contents

- [**User Experience UX**](#user-experience-ux)
  - [**User Stories**](#user-stories)
  - [**Wireframes**](#wireframes)
  - [**Design Choises**](#design-choices)
  - [**Typography**](#typography)
  - [**Colour Scheme**](#colour-scheme)
- [**Features**](#features)
  - [**Home**](#navigation-menu)
  - [**Quiz**](#quiz)
  - [**Instruction**](#instruction)
  - [**Sound Effects**](#sound-effect)
  - [**Score**](#score)
  - [**Timer**](#timer)
  - [**High Score**](#highest-score)
  - [**Highlight**](#highlight-answer)
- [**Testing**](#testing)
- [**Technology Used**](#technology-used)
- [**Deployment**](#deployment)
- [**Credit**](#credit)
- [**Aknowledgment**](#aknowledgment)

# User Experience UX

The quiz game allows the players to personlize their experience by entering a username.

By entering their own username, players will have a personlized game experience. This feature enhances users experience and creates an interactive that is both fun but also personal. One the user/player enters their name it will be displayed throughout the game. This provides a sense of ownership and connection.

It also allows users the flexibility to express their individuality to their game experience.

- ## User Stories

Privacy

The player's username will only be visable to their players game session, this will not be stored or collected. It ensures privacy and secruity for all our users. The final page with scoring only includes the specific players score and does not display previous players name for security reasons.

Users Demands

- A user want to see instructions to the game on "how to play".
- A user want to know how long the game will take.
- A user want to know the level of difficulty this game required.
- A user want to know who the main target players are based on age.
- A user want to know how they scored.

[Back to top](#contents)

- ## Wireframes

- ## Design Choises

- ## Typography

- ## Colour Scheme

[Back to top](#contents)

# Features

Below you will find the features used in my quiz game project. The value the features in my project and why its useful function for the quiz game.

## Existing Features

- ## Home-page
  - Welcoming users to the page and request to choose a username for the game.
  - An icon for the quiz. To enhance user experience through visual appeal in order to add visual interest. It also serves the purpose to create a layout that is visually enganging. It creates a brand and recognition to lift up General Knowledge Quiz.
  - Username Entry is required upon the players to set a unique username in order to personlise the game experience.
  - A button "how to play" that instructs the user with information about the game and how to play. It allows a better user experience sinze the players gain an understanding for the game mechanics. The users also get familiar with the rules and expectations.
  - A start button "start Quiz" creates a benefit to the users as a seamless invitation to click the button for an easy smooth transition to the game. It creates intuitive user interaction by pressing the button it creates a call-to-action to start the game.

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets\readme-images\home-page.jpg" style="background-color: black" alt="Quiz Home page">
</div>

- Button colors for "start quiz" and "how to play" have been picked out as vibrant button colors as they play significant role in enhancing user experience and adding value to the quiz game. The colors create an emotional respone to the users as they have the ability to evoke emotions. Green color creates emotions of "fresh" and "new" and thus was picked to make the users excited to try out the game. "Blue" was used for "how to play" button since blue color is conveys a trusting sence. We want our users to feel that they can trust our game and trust to find the information they need to successfully play the quiz.

* ## Quiz-page

Answer Feedback colors has been created that is associated with the users choice of answer. It is interactive with the users input of choice. Distinct colors of "yellow" and "red" to provide feedback on the true or false answer. It provides clear visial differentiation for the users to identity their answers either as wrong or wright. The colors sends an immidiete feedback to the users and reinforces them to remember the correct and incorrect answers for future references.

![Answer](assets/images/right.answer.png)

![Answer](assets/images/wrong.answer.png)

- Next button's function only appears after the players have choicen and clicked an answer. It serves as a progression controll, it provides strucure and controlled game experience. It inceases users engagement as it also a form to make the users engaged and interactive in the game, pushing them to take action to procees the game's next question. It also serves to push the learning experience of the users as it allows the users to reflect their answer before moving to next question automatically.

  Below you will find images of the same question before and after appearance of the "next button".

![Next button](assets/images/without.png)

![Next button](assets/images/with.png)

- ## End Page

  The end of the quiz game features several functions and component that contribute to closure to the game and users final experience.

  - A thank you text to thank the users for their engagement. It serves the purpose to make the users feel valued for their time and aknowledged for participating.
  - A score text which allows users to see their final score for the game. It serves the purpose to motivate users to play again and if needed to score better next time.
  - A play again button is created to offer users the ability to play again and restart the game. It encourages replaybility for users to play again and an opportunity for continued learning.

  * ## Sound Effects

  - Sound effect for answer feedback has been integrated to create a sound effect for right and wrong answer. In order to enhance overall users experience. It serves as an audio feedback for the users to reflect their answers. Correct answer has a positive sound which create a sense of achievement and encouragement for our users. It serves as inclusive function for our users who perhaps need an audio feedback instead of a visual feedback. This promotes accessbility for all our users.

- ## Score

- ## Timer

- ## High Score

- ## Highlight

![score](assets/images/final.png)

- ## Instruction Page

[Back to top](#contents)

- ## Future Features
  Features for future quiz feature inorder to improve users overall experience that could be included to the quiz includes:

* Different levels to the quiz game, were the users can pick from beginner friendly, mid and difficult level. This would attract more users to the game.

[Back to top](#contents)

# Testing

Testing and validation was used to ensure quality and correct coding in order to create a functioning quiz for our users experience.

- Html Validator: The HTML code has been validated using the [W3 Markip Validation Service] (<https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input>)
- JavaScript Validator: The JavaScript code has been validated using the [Esprima] (https://esprima.org/demo/validate.html)
- CSS Validator: The CSS code has been validated using the [W3 CSS Validation Service] (<https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/>)

Please refer to [**_here_**](TESTING.md) for more information on testing the Quiz.

[Back to top](#contents)

# Techonologies Used

- Auto Close Tag:
  It is an extension ..

- Prettier:
  It ..

[Back to top](#contents)

# Deployment

### Local Deployment

- Choose an IDE that you work on which will be connected to your Github for further deployment.
- We chose the Github workspace: https://github.com/features/codespaces
- Ensure that your local development environment is properly set up with all necessary dependencies and configurations.
- Consider using a version control system like Git to manage changes locally before pushing them to Github.
- Open terminal on your workspace.
- Use 'git clone' command followed by the URL of the repository in order to deploy the project locally: such as, git clone 'https://github.com/MaryanGelle/simplequiz'

### Github Deployment

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets\readme-images\deployment.jpg" style="background-color: black" alt="Deployment Github page">
</div>

Requirements:

- A valid GitHub account.
- Familiarity with basic Git commands for version control.

1. Sign in to your GitHub account.
2. Go to https://github.com/MaryanGelle.
3. You can create a new repository.
4. On your Workspace use 'git add', 'git commit', and 'git push' to push changes to your GitHub repository.
5. GitHub Pages automatically updates from the master branch by default.
6. Open the Settings page of your repository.
7. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section.
8. Select the Master Branch as the source and confirm your selection.
9. Confirm your selection.
10. Wait a moment for the changes to propagate. Your website should be live shortly.

[Back to top](#contents)

# Credit

Below you will find credit references to my sources for content and media.

- Lato Font from [Google Fonts]
  (https://www.fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Lato:ital,wght@0,100;0,300;0,400;0,700;1,100;1,300;1,400;1,700&display=swap)
- Sound Effect:
  - Correct sound effect from [Pixabay] (<https://pixabay.com/sound-effects/search/correct/>)
  - Wrong sound effect from [Pixabay] (<https://pixabay.com/sound-effects/search/incorrect/>)
- Icon from [Flaticon] (<https://www.flaticon.com/search?word=knowledge>)
-
-
-
-
-

https://jshint.com/ for javascript validation

https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator for css

https://validator.w3.org/nu/#textarea for html

https://pagespeed.web.dev/ pagespeed Accessibility testing 

prettier app for better formatting for performance

to improce accessibility contrast test/background 
use to https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/ compare


[Back to top](#contents)

# Acknowledgment

This Website quiz game was made by Maryan Gelle (Developer) as a Project 2 JavaScript for my Full Stack programe at Code Institue in 2025.

[Back to top](#contents)
